---
title: Once in a Lifetime Presidential Candidate
description: We finally have a real contender who just wants to solve the problems that Americans care about
date: 2019-12-25
---

First, a little background on me. I am 29 years old and I have never voted or donated to a political campaign until Andrew Yang. For many Americans, the mainstream media is not trustworthy. Politicians are even less reliable because we still face serious problems despite being the richest country in the world. That doesn't happen unless your leadership is incompetent, corrupt or both. This is one of the many reasons Trump was able to defy poll statistics and win the election in 2016.

Close to 80% of the population is living paycheck to paycheck despite GDP growth and a "strong" jobs market. These economic metrics don't mean much to the average American. Even Trump himself said these metrics are "fake news" and unreliable during his 2016 campaign although he boasts about those numbers now that he is in office. The popularity of candidates like Bernie and Yang prove that the establishment is losing control. Now is the time for dormant non voters to wake up and support real change. If not now then when? When 99% of the population is living paycheck to paycheck? When automation wipes out the need for delivery drivers, truck drivers, retail workers and call center jobs? Responding to automation too early is much more affordable than waiting until it's too late to react.

Why Andrew Yang? He is a political outsider and a successful business man with a strong grassroots movement that continues to grow. His practical and data centered approach to solving America's problems will make the problems obvious and expose the outdated and stubborn minds in DC. One way this would be accomplished is through a universal basic income which would empower citizens. They would now have money to donate to political campaigns which would diversify the field of candidates which is currently almost completely white with the exception of Yang. This would help the people compete with the corporations who have obviously held a strong grip on our political system through their lobbying. It would also decrease bureacracy because you don't need to check a person's income. Everyone gets it. The program is opt in so citizens who like their current benefits situation have nothing to worry about. This would allow the voters to see how much more effective UBI is compared to our current outdated and wasteful welfare programs. Many who qualify for these programs do not apply because of the frustrating application process. The "Freedom Dividend" requires no lengthy application process and it stacks with a few other government assistance progams.

How do we pay for it? It's funded by a value added tax which has already been implemented in many European countries successfully. They implemented this tax after they tried a wealth tax which failed to bring in the revenue they were hoping for. There are complaints made out of ignorance about the tax being regressive but they ignore the fact that commmon consumer goods like groceries, milk and diapers will be exempt. Just take a look at all the other implementations of the value added tax from countries like Canada, Germany, Denmark, Switzerland and many more.

There are also many unfounded concerns about inflation that fail to take into account the fact that this dividend is not funded by money printing. It is paid for by money that already exists. A toll would be placed on every Amazon purchase, every Google search, and every robot truck mile. What would be the point in trying to tax the average American who is struggling financially? Yang's plan aims to tax the biggest winners who are currently seeing record profits. This would allow American citizens to benefit from those profits as well as the massive net loss in jobs caused by automation. Failing to implement universal basic income would place a heavy strain on our current social welfare programs. There would be less taxpayers funding the programs while simultaneously adding more Americans to the list of recipients. Let's act to prevent these problems by electing forward thinking individuals instead of the same old reactionary politicians.

For more information about Yang's policies, visit [Yang2020.com](https://www.yang2020.com/policies/ )